News Date: Sep 28, 2024
Title: America’s eternal green light to the Tel Aviv terrorist gang; From genocide in Gaza to crimes in Lebanon
Author: Mohammad Mahdi Abbasi, researcher in the field of American Studies

These days(sep 2023), as the world is approaching the anniversary of Operation Al-Aqsa Flood and October 7 2023, Gaza has witnessed one of the biggest genocides in human history with more than 42,000 martyrs and over 95,000 injured, 70% of whom are women and children. The Zionist regime has committed this genocide with the definite participation of the United States, and according to American and Israeli officials, its continuation for a year was possible only with the support of the United States. The passing of financial aid packages in US Congres in support of the Zionist regime, military aid packages that include smart bombs and defense systems, deployment of American warships near the occupied territories, vetoing of ceasefire plans in international forums, different trips of senior American officials to Tel Aviv, the presence of US officers and forces in Israel, and the crackdown on pro-Palestinian protests across the United States are only a portion of the US’s one-year dark record in complicity with the crimes of the Zionist regime in Gaza.
However, US participation in the crimes of the Zionist regime does not end there. In recent days, the world has witnessed a new chapter of US partnership with this “criminal gang” in crimes that began on September 17 with the simultaneous explosion of hundreds of pagers and walkie-talkies throughout Lebanon. As a result of these terrorist explosions in Lebanon, 12 people, including two children and two members of the medical staff, were killed and at least 2,800 others were injured. This crime, according to many international organizations and even Western authorities, was a “blatant act of terrorism.” For example, former CIA director Leon Panetta acknowledged this in an interview a few days ago. He said, “The ability to be able to place an explosive in technology that is very prevalent these days, and turn it into a war of terror, really, a war of terror—this is something new ... I don’t think there’s any question that it’s a form of terrorism.” In a report, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights also called this terrorist act by the Zionist regime in Lebanon a blatant and terrifying violation of international law.
Also, in recent days, with the Zionist regime’s airstrikes on various areas of Lebanon, more than 569 people have been martyred and over 1,865 others injured. Once again, children are one of the main victims of the Zionists’ crimes, with 60 Lebanese children having been martyred in just the last few days.
Undoubtedly, this terrorist act of the Zionist regime was accompanied, as always, with the approval and support of the United States. Although senior American officials are trying to acquit themselves of these crimes through official statements, the general public around the world is well aware that regardless of whether the US is informed beforehand, it ultimately supports Israel in any act it carries out. A few months ago, John Mearsheimer, a famous professor of international relations, said in an interview about this issue: “The Israel lobby has control over US Congress and they can get almost anything they want.”
The historical experience of the world in the last few decades has also shown that there is an “eternal green light” from the US for all the barbaric actions of the Zionists. For example, in the case of the assassination of Martyr Haniyeh, even though the US government did not officially support the assassination, it quickly deployed several of its warships, such as the USS Abraham Lincoln, to the region to support Israel in case of a possible response from the Axis of Resistance. Also, the commander of US Central Command (CENTCOM) reportedly arrived in the region to support the Zionist regime. And, of course, the US government’s financial and military aid after every action of the Zionists came to their cry for help to continue their illegal life. The last instance of this was the $3.5 million of US military aid to the Zionist regime in August after the assassination of Martyr Haniyeh. This means that Israeli authorities are fully aware that any action they take in the region — even if it is opposed by Washington — will eventually have the backing of both parties of the United States. This is the “eternal green light” for the actions of Israel by the US government.
In addition, it should be noted that many of the assassinations committed by the Zionist regime in Lebanon these days have been even green-lighted by the United States itself. For instance, years ago, the Americans had set a reward of several million dollars for killing several senior commanders of Hezbollah, who were recently assassinated. The latest green light was given to the Zionist regime by the US in New York, at the headquarters of the United Nations. This green light was immediately translated into action; minutes after the israeli PM tried to justify the attacks on civilian buildings in Lebanon in his UNGA speech through false claims about the Resistance storing weapons in them, US-made 2,000-pound bombs leveled 6 apartmetns to the ground in Beirut’s Dahiya, and the Zionist regime kept bombing civilian buildings in southern Beirut until morning in more than 40 air strikes. At the climax of these bombardments, Anthony Blinken, US Secretary of State, talked about the diplomacy being the best path forward to end the conflicts between the Zionist regime and Lebanon, without the slightest mention of horrific bombardments of Dahiya in Beirut.
In conclusion, the Leader of the Islamic Revolution, in his speech, delieved a few days ago, wisely pointed to the all-round and constant support of the United States to the Zionist regime and said, “In today’s battle in Lebanon and Palestine, the infidel and evil enemy has the most equipment. The US is behind it. The Americans say: ‘We are not involved. We have no information.’ They are telling a falsehood! They do know and are involved as well, and they also need the victory of the Zionist regime.”