News Date: Oct 3, 2024
Title: Battle against Zionists won’t stop even with Sayyid Hassan Nasrallah’s martyrdom

Acting on Imam Khamenei's behalf, his sons visited several injured Lebanese fighters and members of Hezbollah’s Islamic Resistance who have been brought to Tehran. During this visit by the Leader of the Islamic Revolution’s sons, the wounded Lebanese forces emphasized that the battle against the Zionists won’t stop even with Sayyid Hassan Nasrallah’s martyrdom.
These individuals, who were injured or disabled in the recent attacks on Lebanon, have been brought to Iran for completion of their treatment. They come from various age groups, and among them are even infants, young children, and teenagers.
Despite their various physical pains and injuries, the victims of the crimes perpetrated by the Zionist terrorist gang warmly welcomed the representatives of the Leader of the Islamic Revolution in a friendly, spiritual atmosphere.
During their visit with the injured individuals, Imam Khamenei's sons conveyed the Leader of the Islamic Revolution's greetings and salutations to them. They also enquired into the details and progress of the ongoing medical procedures and treatment of these individuals from the relevant officials.
The key topics referred to in the statements of the injured and the Resistance fighters in their meeting with the Leader’s representatives included: an emphasis on continuing the path started by Sayyid Hassan Nasrallah, the martyred Secretary-General of Hezbollah, in the fight against the Zionist regime; an expression of gratitude to the people of Iran for their support of the Resistance that is confronting the Zionist regime in the region; as well as appreciation of the dedicated efforts of Iranian doctors and nurses.
These fighters and those who were with them were in a good mental and spiritual state and were highly prepared despite their physical injuries, and they asked the Leader’s sons to send their regards to their father. They also requested that the Leader pray for the victory of the Resistance Front. Furthermore, they asked Imam Khamenei’s sons to give the Leader a heartfelt confidence that the sacred battle against the Zionist regime won’t stop. It will continue undeterred by the bitter events that have taken place, including the martyrdom of Sayyid Hassan Nasrallah.
They emphasized that even though they have lost a cherished figure in the martyrdom of Sayyid Hasan Nasrallah, they still feel the presence of Imam Khamenei, who is the spiritual father of Lebanon’s Islamic Resistance. And the battle will continue under his leadership and guidance.
These visits took place in such a warm, spiritual environment that some of those who were also present in this visit were inspired and moved by the heroic, faithful spirit of the Lebanese fighters and their companions too.
The Leader’s sons stressed the fact that the Islamic Resistance fighters of Lebanon and their sacred struggle against the Zionist regime are a source of pride, and not just for Iranians but for all Muslims worldwide. They said that supporting this battle and its fighters is the duty of all Muslims, and they praised their jihad on the path of God. The visitors prayed for the health and recovery of the injured, and they expressed their hope that the injured would be able to return to their country following their treatment.
Spiritual gifts sent by the Leader of the Islamic Revolution were presented during this visit, including the Holy Quran and a personal message from Imam Khamenei to the injured and the fighters of the Islamic Resistance.
The full text of the message from the Leader of the Revolution addressed to the wounded fighters of the Resistance is as follows:
In the Name of God, the Compassionate, the Merciful
My dear ones!
You have been victorious in this divine test.
Your patience and steadfastness are some of the greatest forms of jihad.
I pray to Almighty God for your healing and well-being, and may you have a blessed ending to your life [in the future].
Sayyid Ali Khamenei
Sept. 30, 2024